Doc 302 new etl tutorial (#25320)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/docs-beta/docs/etl-pipeline-tutorial/refactor-your-project.md

---
title: Refactor your project
description: Refactor your completed project into a structure that is more organized and scalable. 
last_update:
  author: Alex Noonan
sidebar_position: 80
---

> Many engineers generally leave something alone once its working as expected. But the first time you do something is rarely the best implementation of a use case and all projects benefit from incremental improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many engineers generally leave something alone once it's working as expected. But the first time you do something is rarely the best implementation of a use case, and all projects benefit from incremental improvements.
```

## Splitting up project structure

> Right now the project is contained within one definitions file. This has gotten kinda unwieldy and if we were to add more to the project it would only get more disorganized. So we're going to create separate files for all the different Dagster core concepts: 

Reviewer: I would rewrite this a bit: "Currently, your project is contained in one definitions file. However, this file has gotten fairly complex, and adding to it would only increase its complexity. To fix that, we will create separate files for each core Dagster concept"

- Assets

> - schedules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Schedules
```

> - sensors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sensors
```

> - partitions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Partitions
```

The final project structure should look like this:
```
dagster-etl-tutorial/
├── data/
│   └── products.csv
│   └── sales_data.csv
│   └── sales_reps.csv
│   └── sample_request/
│       └── request.json
├── etl_tutorial/
│   └── assets.py
│   └── definitions.py
│   └── partitions.py
│   └── schedules.py
│   └── sensors.py
├── pyproject.toml
├── setup.cfg
├── setup.py
```

### Assets

Assets make up a majority of our project and this will be our largest file. 

<CodeExample filePath="guides/tutorials/etl_tutorial_completed/etl_tutorial/assets.py" language="python" lineStart="1" lineEnd="292"/>

### Schedules

The schedules file will only contain the `weekly_update_schedule`.

<CodeExample filePath="guides/tutorials/etl_tutorial_completed/etl_tutorial/schedules.py" language="python" lineStart="1" lineEnd="8"/>

### Sensors

The sensors file will have the job and sensor for the `adhoc_request` asset. 

<CodeExample filePath="guides/tutorials/etl_tutorial_completed/etl_tutorial/sensors.py" language="python" lineStart="1" lineEnd="47"/>

> ## Adjusting definitions object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adjusting the Definitions object
```

Reviewer: I would recommend "Refactoring" instead of "Adjusting"

> Now that we have separate files we need to adjust how the different elements are adding to definitions since they are in separate files 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have separate files, we need to adjust how the different elements are added to the Definitions object.
```

> 1. Imports

Reviewer: I would make this section a note instead of a step:

> :::note
> The Dagster project runs from the root directory, so whenever you reference files in your project, you need to use the root as the starting point.
> Additionally, Dagster has functions to load all assets and asset checks from a module (`load_assets_from_modules` and `load_asset_checks_from_modules`, respectively).
> :::

The Dagster project runs from the root directory so whenever you are doing file references you need to have that as the starting point. 

Additionally, Dagster has functions to load all the assets `load_assets_from_modules` and asset checks `load_asset_checks_from_modules` from a module. 

> 2. Definitions

Reviewer: If you format the "Imports" section as a note, you can delete this line.

> To bring our project together copy the following code into your `definitions.py` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To bring your project together, copy the following code into your `definitions.py` file:
```

<CodeExample filePath="guides/tutorials/etl_tutorial_completed/etl_tutorial/definitions.py" language="python" lineStart="1" lineEnd="19"/>

> ## Quick Validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Quick validation
```

> If you want to validate that your definitions file loads and validates you can run the `dagster definitions validate` in the same directory that you would run `dagster dev`. This command is useful for CI/CD pipelines and allows you to check that your project loads correctly without starting the webserver. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To validate that your definitions file loads and validates, you can run `dagster definitions validate` in the same directory that you would run `dagster dev`. This command is useful for CI/CD pipelines and allows you to check that your project loads correctly without starting the web server. 
```
